So what is it we're going to create.
Well let's go back over to Blendr And what we're going to do is try and create an apartment scene.
I go over to the Finder window here and I have in here some reference images and what I'd like to do
is create an apartment scene that's kind of a rundown apartment in a not so great part of town and I've
found these images out on google images just to give me kind of an idea of a sense of it.
I don't know that I want it to be this run down but I don't know that I want it to be an art gallery
per se but I like these windows here.
I like the lay out of this with kind of the the main door coming in here and the kitchen.
And then a living area and maybe a door over here and a door over here and it looks like they're windows
over here.
I kind of like the layout of this one.
And then this is just a collection of junk and dirty dishes in the sink and maybe some cracked walls
and things like this and maybe an old radiator and things like that.
So I've just gathered these images together to give me a sense of what I'm trying to create.
And I would really recommend this with any project that you do if you're going for realism then you
really need reference images whether you find them on the Internet through google images or whatever
whether you go out and take your own pictures.
I really feel like you need to surround yourself with the imagery that you're trying to create even
if you're trying to create a nonrealistic scene.
Then I would suggest maybe trying to find images from a particular art movement maybe you want to look
at painters of the Impressionist period or surrealism or maybe you're thinking about the curious Kuro
lighting of the Dutch Masters.
Maybe you're thinking of like Caravaggio and Rembrandt or whatever find as many reference images as
you can so that you're grounding your work in reality even if it's other people's artwork.
You're still grounding the work in reality.
Anyway I think that reference images are really important.
And every artist that you love and admire uses reference images I guarantee.
Now I'd also like an object in my scene in Blender that gives me a sense of scale of how big a person
is.
So I'm going to come back here and a blender and what I'd like to do is just create a cube.
I'll come over here to the Create tab and I'll click on cube and for this I want this to be six feet
tall.
So I'm currently using meters and that's really what I'm going to use mainly but for me I know as I
said feet and inches so I'm thinking of just kind of an average male being six feet tall that just seems
like a size that would be a good scale for my scene here.
So I'm going to come over here to the scene panel and just briefly I'm going to switch it over to Imperial.
And remember I said that when you change from one measure of unit to another the size of the objects
doesn't change it's the size of the measurement that changes.
So these are still the right size.
Notice here that now it's six and a half feet tall so if I came over here to this field right here and
just typed six in here and enter now this object is six feet tall so I also can change the action the
while just change these to one each.
And there we go.
So now we've got a reference object that is exactly six feet tall and if I switch back to the metric
system of measure here you can see that the Z is actually one point eight to nine metres so it's doing
the conversion for us which is kind of nice.
So now what I want to do is make sure that this is flat on the ground plane and that the pivot point
is that the ground plane as well.
I want to make sure that when I zero it out in the z axis that it's right on the ground.
So many hit the period key on the numpad do frame this up and let me tab into Edit Mode press control
tab to bring up the mesh select and I'll choose face and I'll just select that one face.
Now I want to move the 3D cursor to that so press shift s and move the cursor to the selected right
there.
Now if I tab back into object mode I can come over here to the tools panel and set the origin to the
3D cursor.
Now the origin of this object is right at the bottom of it.
So if I take this z axis the location here and zero it out that will pop it right down to the floor.
Right down to the floor of my object there or my scene.
So now that we have that let me get this cursor back in the center as well so I'll press shift s and
put the cursor in the center of the grid.
All right.
So there we have our person height and the floor of our scene.
Now I'm going to take this object this scale object and move it to another layer so I'll just select
it and press the key and I'll move it to the last layer down here so you can see it right there.
And I've got the floor over here in the first layer maybe I'll take this and move it down to this layer
right down here.
There we go.
So now as I create new objects I can always come down here and press shift and click that layer and
bring the floor back.
Well let's go ahead and begin blocking the walls out for our scene.
Let me come back here.
Let me name this guy.
Better give him a name.
What do we want to call that I'll just call it six six feet.
Scale.
So I know that that's the 6 foot tall scale there.
And I think I'd like to just begin blocking out the walls so I'll bring back the floor as well.
I'll create a cube and let's begin moving it over here so I'll just bring it up a bit.
I'll scale it in the X so press S and X and scale it.
So it's a little bit thinner and I'll begin scaling these kind of like this and I'll also maybe tab
into Edit Mode grab this face and start bringing it up a bit like this.
Now I'll hit the end key so I can kind of see what the dimensions are of this so and the Z axis I've
got four meters for switch over to Imperial.
I've got 13 feet.
So to me I think an 8 or 10 foot ceiling would be wise.
Let's go with nine actually.
So let me grab this and move it down a bit and I'll scale it in the Z until we get around 9 feet here.
Let's try that.
That may be a little bit tall but let's try it.
So I'll bring that down.
So it kind of sits on the ground.
Once again I'll move this cursor.
I can tap into edit mode select that bottom face press shift ask move the cursor to the selected and
then move that pivot point under the Tools tab set the origin to the 3D cursor.
And then if I drop that down to zero.
Now it's going to sit right on that ground plane there.
All right.
So the apartment reference image that I want to use for this.
And as I mentioned I kind of like this
layout.
So we've got this wall here and then a wall sticking out counters here and I'm thinking there are windows
over here you can kind of see the light coming in here.
So I want to try and replicate this layout.
So if that's going to be my lay out then let's say
let's say here's that wall that back wall that we were just looking at.
It's currently 50 feet.
I don't think that place is that big
let's bring that Y-axis down press.
And why reduce that a bit.
And let's go ahead and take this unduplicated and I'm going to press shift D and enter.
And then I'm going to move this around and maybe bring it over here for this wall coming over in the
kitchen where that I think the front door would be.
So if I press R and Z I can rotate around this axis and if I look over here in the Z-axis under rotation
I can see I've turned it 78 degrees I'll just type in 90 and bring that over here
something like this.
That feels a little too big to me.
So I feel like this wouldn't be 40 feet long.
So I'm going to try and bring that in to maybe 30 feet or so.
And let me Center that cursor again let me bring this wall in.
So this is going to be the wall where the front door is
and if I grab this face now and bring it in yeah let's call it something like that.
So now this one is 30 feet long as well.
Yes so maybe we're just dealing with a 30 foot square room here.
Thirty feet by 30 feet.
So I'm just trying to lay this out now.
And let me grab this and duplicate it.
Hit the x key.
Move that over there.
And then I'll just grab this.
Chef de y.
And then drag that over here so let's take a look at this.
If this kind of feels right now one thing that we can do here just like we can move around in unity
with the WASC D keys and the mouse.
You can also do that here in Blender.
So if it if I press shift F and then hit the tab key that'll drop me down to the ground and I can move
around with the mouse and then press the W key and just move around the scene some kind of.
See here's how tall I am with this guy.
So I'm about six feet tall or at least maybe almost six feet tall here.
And so this gives me a sense of the room so I can kind of move around here and say OK if I came in the
front door I'd walk in here and see the kitchen.
OK.
I move in here and see the living area.
Maybe it would be Windows over here.
All right.
This is feeling pretty good.
So when I hit the escape key and there we go.
So now I think that's going to work pretty well.
Let me go back to that reference image and see what I think here.
If this is 10 feet here and I'm thinking this is 20 feet then maybe yeah then maybe this is about 30
by 30 all the way around.
All right.
Well let's give that a try.
So I'll call this wall front door wall window
wall doors and I'll call this wall back.
Something like that.
So let's let's name these now.
This one our call.
So I said Wall back.
This one will be while front door this one over here.
I'll call wall windows because we're going to put a couple of windows in here.
This one over here will be called Wall doors because we'll have maybe a door to a bedroom and maybe
a door to a bathroom or something like that.
So for now I'm going to go ahead and select this one I'm going to hide it away because I want to be
able to see into this room fairly easily so this is wall windows.
I'm just going to click on the icon and turn that off so I can see in here a little easier.
So once again I'll press shift F and then the tab key and that will put me on the ground and I can move
around with WASC and try and get a sense of how this is going to feel.
Yeah I think this is pretty good.
We'll go with this for now and see if we need to alter it as we go.
All right.
So we've got a good beginning here we've established a pipeline from Blender to unity we've we've established
our units of measure.
And over here I'm going to switch back to metric now we've created a scale object here and we've got
some basic walls and floor in to begin our scene.
Now we should do one more thing before we close out of here.
I'm going to go back to unity and I've begun creating in the assets folder collection of folders to
organize my project.
One of the things I want to do is create a new folder here by right clicking choosing create and folder
and I want to just call this seems.
Here we go.
And in this I'm going to put all of my scenes so this scene right here I'm going to just call scene
test 1 something like that so I'm just going to come up here to the file menu.
Now you can't see that right now but I'm just going to come up to file and save scene.
I can also just choose control or command s right in here and that will bring up the saved scene window.
I'm going to click this and go into scenes and then I'll just call this scene test 0 1.
So I'm just going to be creating a collection of test scenes as I go.
So I click save.
And there we go.
So there's our scene inside the scenes folder.
So as we go we're going to do more and more of this organizing and we're also going to do a good deal
of organizing up here in the hierarchy as well.
One of the things that's great about unity is it's very open to however you want to do things however
you want to organize things.
Which also means that it can get to be a complete mess too.
So with these larger projects where we're creating a lot of objects within a scene it's really good
to begin organizing your scene right up front.
All right.
So if we go back to Blendr we can see that we've already got a floor a couple of walls.
We've got our scale object our six feet scale.
We're ready to go ahead and begin creating our object.
I think what I'm going to do instead of blocking out doors and walls and kitchen cabinets and things
right now I think what I want to do is actually create a piece of furniture because I think in my head
at least I can get a pretty good sense of how big a piece of furniture should be compared to this six
foot tall scale object.
So once I get that in there and can move it around and put it up against a wall or move it around here
I can get a sense as to whether or not the space is correct how it feels.
So I think in the next video that's what we'll do.